so now what we're going to do is work on thistop part of the sirloin and we have
two parts we have where we're going to cut
medallions often referred to as the baseball
and then we have the butt or the heart
part of our sirloin they're separated
by a seam and I'm just going to tidy up
some of this fat so we can take a look at that seam
just underneath there is going to be
a seam of elastin, elastin is a type
of protein but it doesn't matter how much
heat you apply to it you won't be breaking
that elastin down especially not while
grilling so it generally would make
if I were to cut steaks from here it
would make those steaks unpleasant
so by separating these two muscles it allows us
to remove that elastin and actually
improve both of these muscles tremendously
now I'm just going to cut off the
excess fat, this is primarily because
one of the characteristics of
both the baseball and the heart
is that they're quite a bit leaner with your cap
steaks or your picanha steaks you're going to have
that intramuscular marbling but you won't have
the same quantity of marbling on these two muscles
these are our baseball stakes and now I'm left
with that heart muscle and this heart muscle
is a beautiful muscle I'm just
going to tidy up a bit of the
elastin that we'll have on
left over on the side here